1 a ?
  b sometimes
  c sometimes
  d sometimes
  e ?
  f always
  g sometimes
  h sometimes
  i never
  j ?

2 a ?
  b when the operating system spends so much time swapping pages that no real
    work gets done
  c ?
  d increasing the memory used up by vmware's "balloon" driver so that the
    virtual machine guest operating system's memory gets decreased.
  e ?
  f translation look-aside buffer. a cache for virtual address lookups. often
    have a tag to distinguish different address spaces for operating system
    context switches. some also have a virtual cpu tag for virtual machine
    level context switches within a virtual machine monitor.

3 a micokernel reduces the amount of abstractions used to a minimal set.
    exokernel removes all the abstractions and makes the hardware available to
    the user applications.
  b 1 increased block size improved performance because it allowed better usage
      of the disk.
    2 cylinder groups made files within a directory and file blocks within a
      file close to each other so that disk seek was reduced.
  c ?
  d because we don't trust the user. the application may purposefully kick out
    a page that is not really it's oldest to try to get more pages allocated to
    it. using placeholders the operating system can keep track, and when the
    application requests the page it just booted out, it will forcefully swap
    out the originally chosen page.
  e native irix can't take advantage of a large number of processors. it is
    really hard to write an operating system to leverage massive
    multiprocessing and shared memory.
  f developed user-land services that implemented the various bsd system call
    behaviors using the mach microkernel system?
  g 1 semantic gap. vmm's don't know what's going on inside their guest
      operating systems, so they can't the difference between a scientific
      computation and an idle loop.
    2

4 a fat table. has an entry for every block on the disk that tells the location
    of the next block for the given file. uses special markers to flag end of
    file and a free block. to find a free block, a linear search is done for
    a fat table entry with the free block flag.
  b so that it is always known where they are?
  c 
  d

5 a

6

7 a
  b ipc
    ports
  c
  d 

8

9 a
  b
  c
